PD-L2 glycosylation promotes immune evasion and predicts anti-EGFR efficacy. BACKGROUND: Combination therapy has been explored for advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) owing to the limited efficacy of anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) therapy. Increased expression and glycosylation of immune checkpoint molecules in tumors are responsible for cetuximab therapy refractoriness. The role of programmed death ligand 2 (PD-L2), a ligand of PD-1, in the immune function is unclear. Here, we examined the regulatory mechanism of PD-L2 glycosylation and its role in antitumor immunity and cetuximab therapy. METHODS: Single-cell RNA sequencing and immunohistochemical staining were used to investigate PD-L2 expression in cetuximab-resistant/sensitive HNSCC tissues. The mechanism of PD-L2 glycosylation regulation was explored in vitro. The effects of PD-L2 glycosylation on immune evasion and cetuximab efficacy were verified in vitro and using mice bearing orthotopic SCC7 tumors. RESULTS: The PD-L2 levels were elevated and N-glycosylated in patients with cetuximab-resistant HNSCC. Glycosylated PD-L2 formed a complex with EGFR, which resulted in the activation of EGFR/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling and decreased the cetuximab binding affinity to EGFR. The N-glycosyltransferase fucosyltransferase (FUT8), a transcriptional target of STAT3, was required for PD-L2 glycosylation. Moreover, glycosylation modification stabilized PD-L2 by blocking ubiquitin-dependent lysosomal degradation, which consequently promoted its binding to PD-1 and immune evasion. Inhibition of PD-L2 glycosylation using Stattic, a specific STAT3 inhibitor, or PD-L2 mutation blocking its binding to FUT8, increased cytotoxic T lymphocyte activity and augmented response to cetuximab. CONCLUSIONS: Increased expression and glycosylation of PD-L2 in tumors are an important mechanism for cetuximab therapy refractoriness. Thus, the combination of PD-L2 glycosylation inhibition and cetuximab is a potential therapeutic strategy for cancer.